docs(manifest): Improvements to `name`, `short_name`, `start_url` (#35847)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/application_context/index.md

---
title: Application context
slug: Glossary/Application_context
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> An **application context** is a top-level {{glossary("browsing context")}} to which a [web application manifest](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest) is applied. The members of an applied manifest affect the presentation or behavior of the browsing context.

Reviewer: This has lots of useful information. It feels a bit like it should be in a web APP guide though, rather than in a glossary.

But anyhow, as a glossary it needs perhaps a bit more context about web apps - its a quick jump into manifest and you might not know that a manifest belongs to a web app. So maybe something like...

```suggestion
**Application context** is the term used to refer to the top-level {{glossary("browsing context")}} of a [web application](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps).

The application context is defined by the [web application manifest](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest), which determines how the browsing context is presented and behaves.
The manifest is applied after the application context is created but before navigation begins to either a start URL or a deep link.
A **deep link** is a URL that directs users to a specific page within the web app, bypassing the home page.
```

Reviewer: And if so, then tidying the following line.

Author: There is a lot of interesting info that I am discovering reading the spec and that I want to include on the landing page or in a guide (making a note of these, but doesn't look like I'll get to this exercise this year).

Great suggestions to add more clarity and context, thanks.
- I haven't used the PWA link here though because no all web apps are PWAs so that could be misleading.
- I changed "The application context is defined..." to active voice.
- I also added a definition kind-of line for start url so that it looks balanced.

> **Application context** refers to the top-level {{glossary("browsing context")}} of a web application.
> It determines how an app's browsing context, such as a tab or a window, is presented and behaves.

> Web developers define the application context in the [web app's manifest file](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest).
> They use the [`scope`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/scope) member in the manifest to specify the set of URLs that are considered part of the application context and to which the manifest applies.

> The manifest is applied after the application context is created but before navigation begins to either a start URL or a deep link.
> A **start URL** is the initial page of the web app.
> A **deep link** is a URL that directs users to a specific page within the web app, bypassing the home page.
The application context ensures that the app's defined behavior and presentation are maintained within its scope.

Reviewer: Looks good. Your reasoning makes sense for all.

The manifest is applied after the application context is created but before navigation begins to either a start URL or a deep link. A **deep link** is a URL that directs users to a specific page within the web app, bypassing the home page.

When an application context is created, browsers must immediately navigate to a start URL or a deep link.
This navigation replaces the current entry in the browsing history.

> If the application context is created to navigate to a deep link, the browser navigates directly to that deep link; otherwise, it navigates to the start URL.

Reviewer: FWIW this is interesting.

---
title: Application context
slug: Glossary/Application_context
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Application context** refers to the top-level {{glossary("browsing context")}} of a web application.

Reviewer: @dipikabh Actually, not entirely sure about "I haven't used the PWA link though because not all web apps are PWAs so that could be misleading."

You're right, but the presence of a manifest is what defines a PWA, so actually PWA is more correct than "web application". It probably should be 

```suggestion
**Application context** refers to the top-level {{glossary("browsing context")}} of a {PWA][insert link].
```

Author: Added like you'd originally suggested:

`...of a [web application](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps).`
